Lidl’s failed inventory control system
D) Lidl is a chain of supermarkets that has around 06 billion in annual revenue. It is known for its low-staffing and zero-waste approach that allows them to keep prices very low. As many of its products are made in a single country and shipped to its supermarkets worldwide, logistics are key to the company, which makes up 80% of the revenue of its parent company, the Schwarz Group, the fifth largest retailer in the world.
E) In 2011, supermarket giant Lidl teamed up with German software company SAP to develop a revolutionary inventory control system. It was called eLWIS (pronounced ‘Elvis’ in German), an acronym for electronic Lidl merchandise management and information system. Despite its cute name, the project failed dismally and seven years and 34 million later, Lidl was forced to revert to its original inventory system.
F) The first and arguably biggest problem in this project was what is called the ‘requirements gap’, a difference between what the program does and what the client wants it to do. In this case, Lidl was used to inputting goods based on their purchase prices in its previous system, while the SAP program was based on retail prices. What seemed initially a minor glitch proved to be a nightmare. The fact that the project was dragged over seven years certainly didn’t help in such a dynamic and ever-changing industry as discount retail, especially given that Lidl experienced high executive turnover in the period. When the client’s management changes mid-project, there are bound to be some issues resulting from a degree of misalignment with the new executive views.

Obama’s Healthcare website
A) Barack Obama was elected in 2009 with a vow to bring affordable healthcare to millions of uninsured citizens, and once he was inaugurated, he showed he meant business. He signed the Affordable Care Act, also known as Obamacare, and invested heavily in healthcare from the first year of his term. The crown jewel of his campaign was the website Healthcare.gov, a one-stop shop where Americans would be able to sign up for the insurance of their choice.
B) After a long period of growing expectations, the website was finally launched on October 1, 2013. On its first day, the website had four million unique visitors, but a series of mistakes resulted in only six of them managing to successfully register. Yes, you read that right: not six hundred or six thousand, six! Visitors experienced all sorts of crashes, delays and errors that rendered the portal virtually impossible to use. The following period didn’t prove much better: eight million people visited the website in the next few days, with a sign-up rate of about 1%. The portal was eventually improved and 10 million Americans were able to become insured through it in 2014 alone, but its disastrous roll-out remains one of the most incredible failures in IT projects.
C) There were a series of notable mistakes in this project, not the least of them the fact that the scale of such a nationwide project was seriously underestimated, leading to management mistakes at all levels. Political interference was also claimed to have been an issue, with pressure to include features and rush deadlines in order to appease politicians. Finally, as a number of governmental departments were involved in the project, there was a lack of centralized leadership, which contributed to project management failures.

