Lidl’s failed inventory control system
D) Lidl is a chain of supermarkets that has around $106 billion in annual revenue. It is known for its low-staffing and zero-waste approach that allows them to keep prices very low. As many of its products are made in a single country and shipped to its supermarkets worldwide, logistics are key to the company, which makes up 80% of the revenue of its parent company, the Schwarz Group, the fifth largest retailer in the world.
E) In 2011, supermarket giant Lidl teamed up with German software company SAP to develop a revolutionary inventory control system. It was called eLWIS (pronounced ‘Elvis’ in German), an acronym for electronic Lidl merchandise management and information system. Despite its cute name, the project failed dismally and seven years and $534 million later, Lidl was forced to revert to its original inventory system.
F) The first and arguably biggest problem in this project was what is called the ‘requirements gap’, a difference between what the program does and what the client wants it to do. In this case, Lidl was used to inputting goods based on their purchase prices in its previous system, while the SAP program was based on retail prices. What seemed initially a minor glitch proved to be a nightmare. The fact that the project was dragged over seven years certainly didn’t help in such a dynamic and ever-changing industry as discount retail, especially given that Lidl experienced high executive turnover in the period. When the client’s management changes mid-project, there are bound to be some issues resulting from a degree of misalignment with the new executive views.
