Rules 
    since + a number/phase -> Since the 1987 -> Present Perfect
    since + past simple -> Since he woke up -> Present Perfect
    since + Present perfect , Present Perfect -> since he has lived here

words 
-agenda
venue
we are about to launch , the engineers are looking into it, hit a probem
how are things with
weve hit a problem
the real proble lies
Asking for an update How does your side of things look?
How's the ... coming along?
How far are you with ...?
How are things with ?.. What's the current status of ?.
Giving an update
Up to now (the launch date) nas been (set) .
He (booked the venue) two WCCnarC.
I've already ... Thaven't ... yet. We're on track.
Things aren't running as smoothly as I'd hoped.
We've hit a problem with . . .
Clarifying a problem
So what do you mean exactly? So what you're saying is ...?
So the real problem lies with .?
Making a suggestion How about (+-ing) We could (+ verb)
Why don't we +( verb)
... would be my proposal.
If you ask me, we should . . .
Responding to a suggestion
That's a good idea. It's worth a try.
I don't think that would . That's possible (but ...)
That's not an ideal solution. I'm not convinced.
I suppose so.
we have run into a problem
where are we with


Why didn't lan like the idea of finding another batery supplier? 
    - would have us to meet deadlines
    - reputaion
2 Why didn't Sarah like the idea of not mentioning the battery life?
        
3 Which proposal did they finaly decide on?
    use a diff phone, IP 20, hitech phone as an attractive price

4) 
Functional phrases


we could keep
thats possible but
why dont we wait and see
would be my proposal
im not convince
if you ask me we should look at
I suppose so


